Hello again!
Previously, we discussed how SIEM tools
help security analysts monitor systems and
detect security threats.
In this video, we'll cover some
industry leading SIEM tools that you'll
likely encounter as a security analyst.
First, let's discuss the different
types of SIEM tools that
organizations can choose from, based
on their unique security needs.
Self-hosted SIEM tools require
organizations to install, operate, and
maintain the tool using their own physical
infrastructure, such as server capacity.
These applications are then managed and
maintained by
the organization's IT department,
rather than a third party vendor.
Self-hosted SIEM tools are ideal
when an organization is
required to maintain physical
control over confidential data.
Alternatively, cloud-hosted
SIEM tools are maintained and
managed by the SIEM providers, making
them accessible through the internet.
Cloud-hosted SIEM tools are ideal for
organizations that don't want to
invest in creating and
maintaining their own infrastructure.
Or, an organization can choose to use
a combination of both self-hosted and
cloud-hosted SIEM tools,
known as a hybrid solution.
Organizations might choose a hybrid SIEM
solution to leverage the benefits of
the cloud while also maintaining
physical control over confidential data.
Splunk Enterprise, Splunk Cloud,
and Chronicle are common
SIEM tools that many organizations use
to help protect their data and systems.
Let's begin by discussing Splunk.
Splunk is a data analysis platform and
Splunk Enterprise provides SIEM solutions.
Splunk Enterprise is a self-hosted tool
used to retain, analyze, and search an
organization's log data to provide security
information and alerts in real-time.
Splunk Cloud is a cloud-hosted tool used
to collect, search, and monitor log data.
Splunk Cloud is helpful for organizations
running hybrid or cloud-only environments,
where some or all of the organization's
services are in the cloud.
Finally, there's Google's Chronicle.
Chronicle is a cloud-native tool designed
to retain, analyze, and search data.
Chronicle provides log monitoring,
data analysis, and data collection.
Like cloud-hosted tools,
cloud-native tools are also fully
maintained and managed by the vendor.
But cloud-native tools
are specifically designed to take full
advantage of cloud computing
capabilities such as availability,
flexibility, and scalability.
Because threat actors are frequently
improving their strategies to
compromise the confidentiality,
integrity, and
availability of their targets,
it's important for
organizations to use a variety of security
tools to help defend against attacks.
The SIEM tools we just discussed are only
a few examples of the tools available for
security teams to use to help
defend their organizations.
And later in the certificate program,
you'll have the exciting opportunity to
practice using Splunk Cloud and Chronicle.